docs(user): add a FAQ item + recipe on decoding raw URL (#1990)
falconry/falcon: docs/user/recipes/raw-url-path.rst

.. _raw_url_path_recipe:

Decoding Raw URL Path
=====================

This recipe demonstrates how to access the "raw" request path using
non-standard (WSGI) or optional (ASGI) application server extensions.
This is useful when, for instance, a URI field has been percent-encoded in
order to distinguish between forward slashes inside the field's value, and
slashes used to separate fields. See also: :ref:`routing_encoded_slashes`

WSGI
----

In the WSGI flavor of the framework, :attr:`req.path <falcon.Request.path>` is
based on the ``PATH_INFO`` CGI variable, which is already presented
percent-decoded. Some application servers expose the raw URL under another,
non-standard, CGI variable name. Let us implement a middleware component that
understands two such extensions, ``RAW_URI`` (Gunicorn, Werkzeug's dev server)
and ``REQUEST_URI`` (uWSGI, Waitress, Werkzeug's dev server), and replaces
``req.path`` with a value extracted from the raw URL:

.. code:: python

    import falcon

    class RawPathComponent:
        def process_request(self, req, resp):

>             raw_uri = req.env.get('RAW_URI', req.env.get('REQUEST_URI'))

Reviewer: maybe we could the uglier 
```
raw_uri = req.env.get('RAW_URI')
if not raw_uri:
   raw_uri  = req.env.get('REQUEST_URI')
```
since it should be faster in when finding `RAW_URI`

Reviewer: maybe just a note above is enough. the if form is not pretty

Author: Heh, I wasn't trying to optimize recipes _that_ much.

Maybe `or` could be more performant?
```python
            raw_uri = req.env.get('RAW_URI') or req.env.get('REQUEST_URI')
```

Reviewer: seems the best option 👍

            # NOTE: Reconstruct the percent-encoded path from the raw URI.
            if raw_uri:
                req.path, _, _ = raw_uri.partition('?')

    class PathResource:
        def on_get(self, req, resp, path):
            # NOTE: path here is potentially percent-encoded.
            path = falcon.uri.decode(path)

            resp.media = {'path': path}

    app = falcon.App(middleware=[RawPathComponent()])
    app.add_route('/example/{path}', PathResource())

Running the above app with a supported server such as Gunicorn or uWSGI, the
following response is rendered to a ``GET /example/item%2F001?p=value``:

.. code:: json

    {
        "path": "item/001"
    }

> If we removed ``RawPathComponent()`` from the app's initializer, the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we removed ``RawPathComponent()`` from the app middleware list, the request
```

> would be routed as ``/example/item/001``, and no matching resource could be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
would be routed as ``/example/item/001``, and no matching resource would be
```

Author: Hm, I actually wrote _could_ intentionally here, but on consideration, your suggestion makes sense.

found:

.. code:: json

    {
        "title": "404 Not Found"
    }

ASGI
----

The ASGI version of :attr:`req.path <falcon.asgi.Request.path>` uses the
``path`` key from the ASGI scope, where percent-encoded sequences are already
decoded into characters just like in WSGI's ``PATH_INFO``.
Similar to the WSGI snippet from the previous chapter, let us create a
middleware component that replaces ``req.path`` with the value of ``raw_path``
(provided the latter is present in the ASGI HTTP scope):

.. code:: python

    import falcon.asgi

    class RawPathComponent:
        async def process_request(self, req, resp):
            raw_path = req.scope.get('raw_path')

            # NOTE: Decode the tunneled raw path from the raw_path bytestring.
            if raw_path:

>                 req.path = raw_path.decode('latin1')

Reviewer: can't path contain any utf8 char? are they encoded to latin1 using the `%` format?

Author: No, it normally shouldn't. `raw_path` is a bytestring, and any utf8 char should be percent-encoded. Maybe we should even use `ascii` instead :thinking: I know Nginx does, for instance.

In any case, that's a good question. Let me take a look at this.

Author: I've changed to `ascii`, and added a short `NOTE` explaining the revised choice. Nginx does that too.

    class PathResource:
        async def on_get(self, req, resp, path):
            # NOTE: path here is potentially percent-encoded.
            path = falcon.uri.decode(path)

            resp.media = {'path': path}

    app = falcon.asgi.App(middleware=[RawPathComponent()])
    app.add_route('/example/{path}', PathResource())

Running the above snippet with ``uvicorn`` (that supports ``raw_path``), the
percent-encoded ``path`` field is now correctly handled for a
``GET /example/item%2F001?p=value`` request:

.. code:: json

    {
        "path": "item/001"

>     }

Reviewer: maybe the not found part could be at the end here since it's valid in both cases
